There are multiple ways through which you can download and configure hadoop in your local machine, 


1) Through Sandbox provided by Horton works: 

Note: To do this installation type, you should have at least 8 GB of RAM and at least 50 GB of free hard disk space, 
otherwise the virtual machine will be reall slow.

Go to following link - 

Step 1
https://www.cloudera.com/downloads/hortonworks-sandbox.html

Step 2:
Select the "Download Now" button under "Hortonworks HDP"

Step 3:
You will be asked to select the installation type in a drop down, Select "Virtual box" and click on Let's go

Step 4:
Now you will be asked to Sign Up, Provide your details 
In why are you downloading this product, Select "For self learning"
and give your details and select continue

Step 5:
Once the page refreshes, you will be asked to select from to hadoop versions,
Hadoop 2.5
Hadoop 2.7

Select 2.5 for memory constraints because 2.5 is 11GB and 2.7 is 16GB


2) Through stand alone set up, installing Hadoop, Java and others separately

Installation of single node cluster on to Linux operating system:
Single node cluster means only one DataNode running and setting up all the NameNode, DataNode, 
ResourceManager and NodeManager on a single machine. This is used for studying and testing purposes. 

Prerequisites: 

VIRTUAL BOX: it is used for installing the operating system on it.
OPERATING SYSTEM: You can install Hadoop on Linux based operating systems. Ubuntu distribution is strongly recommended.     
JAVA: You need to install the Java 8 64 bitpackage on your system.
HADOOP: From Hadoop version 2.7.3 to 3.2.0 package.


Step 1:
Download Java 64 bit from websites like this: https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jdk8-downloads-2133151.html 
and extract the tar file with tar –xvf file.tar
Download the Hadoop Package from https://archive.apache.org/dist/hadoop/core/hadoop-2.7.3/hadoop-2.7.3.tar.gz
Use wget in Linux. Extract the Tar File

Step 2:
Add the Hadoop and Java Path into the .bashrc. Use vi or gedit. 
Check Java and Hadoop Version after installation with Hadoop version and java –version commands. 

Step 3:
Hadoop Configuration: cd hadoop-ver/etc/Hadoop and edit core-site.xml



